Before we close this section of the course about configuring, registering and implementing tasks,
I want to take a last look at the tasks that are already available.
If we look at the task list, you can see the tasks which you have probably already seen before.
Build, assemble and check.
These are so-called life cycle task.
So this means that these tasks don't have any action implemented.
They actually of type default task.
They are only here to have certain anchor points and to build that.
Users can call without thinking too much.
Which task should I call in which situation?
So if, for example, you just cloned the project you didn't use before, which is done in Gradle,
you know that you can just call the build task to test and assemble the whole project.
Assemble, on the other hand, only does the assembling, so only the compilation and packaging of code
and check only runs, tests and called quality checks.
But these are again, conventions.
Since we task, build, assemble and check are added by a so-called base plugin, which is almost always
applied to our projects.
So in our case, if you apply the Java plugin, it also applies to base plugin in the background.
And now if we want to say, for example, that our custom tasks are part of the build lifecycle, we
go into our convention plugin.
Access the tasks, the food task, and say that it depends on certain other tasks.
Note that this is not about input and outputs.
Now this is just wiring tasks together so that the build gets more easily accessible compared to other
build tools like Maven.
This is completely flexible.
You can also create your own life cycle task if you like, to make the build more accessible, to create
a life cycle task you just which is a new task and don't define a type at all.
Then it will automatically be default task without action.
So let's just a task called load all which does even more than the task.
Just as an example here.
Note that lifecycle task is no concept encoded in the task types in gradle.
It just means this is a task that has no action.
So sometimes we would hard to see which are lifecycle tasks and which are real actionable tasks that
do something.
But you can use lifecycle tasks to make a nice build setup.
If you add a group and description to them, you can make it easy through them for people to work with
the build that are not so familiar with all the details that are implemented in custom tasks, for example.
With this.
You now got an overview about the task concept in Gradle.
You learned that through task inputs and outputs, creating those task dependencies can do up to date
checking.
So incremental building and caching this works for any task.
Also your task and task implementation if you use the Gradle specific types to define inputs and outputs.
With this, the mechanism can be used for any kind of custom automation inside the task action.
You can write whatever code you need and also include existing libraries or call other tools.
As long as you define inputs and outputs of your tasks or up to date and caching mechanisms work well.
But you can use lifecycle tasks to make a nice build setup.
Next, we'll move away from tasks and talk more about dependency management.